 
           Hyperion  by Dan Simmons 
 Hyperion is the tale of seven people who make a pilgrimmage to a 
terrifying creature called the Shrike in an attempt to save mankind. 
 Stunningly written and beautifully crafted, Simmons's Hyperion resonates 
with technical achievement and the excitement and wonder found only in 
the best SF. 
 Dan Simmons, a former teacher and director of programmes for gifted 
children, now writes full time. · He lives with his wife and daughter in 
Colorado, USA.  He has always been interested in writing, composing his 
first short stories at the age of nine. 
 Since then he has been co-winner of the first Twilight Zone Magazine 
short story contest, winner of the Rod Serling Memorial Award, and 
winner of the World Fantasy Award for Best Novel with Song of Kali.  He 
is also the author of the much-acclaimed horror novel Carrion Comfort, 
winner of the 1990 Brain Stoker Aw.ard, the Locus Award for Best Horror 
Novel and the British Fantasy Award. 
 Hyperion is the winner of the 1990 Hugo Award and Locus Award for Best 
Science Fiction Novel. 
 Also by Dan Simmons 
 SONG OF KALI 
 Winner of the Worm Fantasy Award 
 CARRION COMFORT 
 Winner of the British Fantasy Society Award 
 Winner of the Brain Stoker Award 
 Winner of the Locus Award for Best Horror Novel 
 THE FALL OF THE HYPERION 
 Winner of the British Science Fiction Association Award for Best Novel 
 


 



 

PHASES OF GRAVITY 
 PRAYERS TO BROKEN STONES 
 Winner of the Btam Stoker Award 
 SUMMER OF NIGHT 
 Winner of the Locus Award for Best Horror Novel 
 CHILDREN OF THE NIGHT 
 Winner of the Locus Award for Best Horror Novel 
 THE HOLLOW MAN LOVEDEATH 
 FIRES OF EDEN ENDYMION 
 Hyperion 
 Dan Simmons 
 Copyright 1989 Dan Simmons 
 The right of Dan Simmons to be identified as the Author of the Work has 
been asserted by him in accordance with the Copyright, Designs and 
Patents Act 1988. 
 First published in Great Britain 1990 
 by HEADLINE BOOK PUBLISHING 
 First published in paperback in 1990 
 by HEADLINE BOOK PUBLISHING 
 First HEADLINE FEATURE paperback in 1991 
 10987 
 All rights reserved.  No part of this publication may be reproduced, 
stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any form or by any 
means without the prior written permission of the publisher, nor be 
otherwise circulated in any form of binding or cover other than that in 
which it is published and without a similar condition being imposed on 
the subsequent purchaser. 
 All characters in this publication are fictitious and any resemblance to 
real persons, living or dead, is purely coincidental. 
 ISBN 0 7472 3482 5 
 Typeset in 10/10h pt English Times 
 by Coiset Private Limited, Singapore 
 Printed and bound in Great Britain by 

 



 

 Cox & Wyman Ltd, Reading, Berkshire 
 HEADLINE BOOK PUBLISHING A division of Hodder Headline PLC 338 Euston 
Road 
 London NW1 3BH 
 This is for Ted 
 PROLOGUE 
 The Hegemony Consul sat on the balcony of his ebony spaceship and played 
Rachmaninoff's Prelude in C-sharp Minor on an ancient but 
well-maintained Steinway while great, green, saurian things surged and 
bellowed in the swamps below.  A thunderstorm was brewing to the north. 
Bruise-black clouds silhouetted a forest of giant gymnosperms while 
stratocumulus towered nine kilometers high in a violent sky.  Lightning 
rippled along the horizon.  Closer to the ship, occasional vague, 
reptilian shapes would blunder into the interdiction field, cry out, and 
then crash away through indigo mists.  The Consul concentrated on a 
difficult section of the Prelude and ignored the approach of storm and 
nightfall. 
